----------------------Assignments from lecture 1 Firewall----------------------
1.  What is a firewall default rule? Which default rule would you 
consider more secure? Explain.
	The firewall defaualt rule is a rule that if nothing els matches in the table this rule is take.
	There is 2 default rule's that can be choosen {ALLOW ALL or DENY ALL)
	The default rule that is more secure is DENY ALL since it considrably more easy to add a rule for
	someone that needs access then to react to an already ongoing attack since a drop rule could have 
	been missed to be added to the table.

2.  What are the netfilter/iptable chains? When are they used?
	There are 3 chains {Froward, Input, Output}
	The Forward chain is used when the traffic is not designated to that host, (see drawing on lecture your own lecture notes)
	The input and Output chain is used when traffic is designated to that host. eg let say i wanna ping or SSH to a firewall.
	when the request comes into the firewall the packet is "hooked" into the input chain. Since i want to interact directly with 
	the firewall.

3(VETO).  What is an IP fragmentation attack? Show how an IP fragmentation 
attack can be used to bypass a firewall.
	https://imgur.com/a/stOKm
	By setting a smaller off-set on fragment 2, we can the rewrite the header for lets say
	port number in fragment 1 when the packet is reasembled. If the firewall dont have the
	capability to reassemble the fragments the attack will go undetected since almost all
	the time fragment reassemble is done at the end host.
	http://resources.infosecinstitute.com/bypassing-packet-filters-with-ip-fragmentation-overlapping/#gref
	----------------------------------------------------------------------
	Let’s assume that the packet filter allows only the connections to port 80, but the 		
	attacker wants to connect to port 23. Although the packet filter is configured to 		
	block the connections to port 23, the attacker might try to use IP fragmentation 	 
	overlapping to bypass the packet filter and finally connect to this port.

	This attack works as follows. The packet filter might be implemented in the way that 		
	the first fragment is checked according to the implemented rules – when the connection 		
	to port 80 is seen, the packet filter accepts this fragment and forwards it to the 		
	receiver. Moreover, the packet filter may assume that the next fragments just include 		
	the data, and this is not interesting from its point of view. As a consequence, the 		
	packet filter forwards the next fragments to the receiver.

	Recall at this point that the reassembling occurs when the fragments arrive to the receiver. 
	The next fragment (as it has been said – forwarded by the packer filter) might have been specially 
	prepared by the attacker – the carefully chosen offset has been used to overwrite the value of the
 	destination port from the first fragment. The receiver waits for all fragments, reassembles 
	them, and finally the connection to port of the attacker’s choice is established.

	The assumption here is that the packet filter looks at the first fragment that has all 
	the necessary information to make a decision about forwarding or denying the fragment – the other fragments
	are assumed not to have interesting data (from packet filter’s point of view) and are just forwarded.

	How could we solve this problem? If the packet filter reassembled the fragments before making a decision (forward or deny), 
	then the attacker would be stopped. As we can see this approach is about understanding the state or 
	context of the traffic and is called stateful inspection (in contrast to the previously 
	described packet filter that is stateless).


4)  Assuming that you are running iptables on your router, write a rule 
that allows incoming traffic on ports 80 and blocks all other access 
to the server. Assume that the server IP address is <server-ip>.
	#Set filter policy	
	(iptables -P INPUT DROP
	iptables -P OUTPUT DROP)
	iptables -P FORWARD DROP
	iptables -A FORWARD -p tcp -d <server-ip> --dport 80 -j ACCEPT
	iptables -A FORWARD -p tcp -s <server-ip> --sport 80 -j ACCEPT

 
5)  Consider that a stateless firewall that blocks all incoming traffic to 
the server that is not directed to port 80. How could an attacker 
establish a connection to the SSH port?
	Same a question 3. IP fragmentation
----------------------Assignments from lecture 2 IDS----------------------
6.  What are the two fundamental models of detection for Intrusion 
Detection Systems? Explain the idea behind each model.
	* Signature-based IDS refers to the detection of attacks by looking for specific 	 
	patterns, such as byte sequences in network traffic, or known malicious instruction 		
	sequences used by malware.Although signature-based IDS can easily detect known 		
	attacks, it is impossible to detect new attacks, for which no pattern is available.
	
	* Anomaly-based:in part due to the rapid development of malware. The basic approach is 		
	to use machine learning to create a model of trustworthy activity, and then compare 		
	new behavior against this model. Although this approach enables the detection of 		
	previously unknown attacks, it may suffer from false positives: previously unknown 		
	legitimate activity may also be classified as malicious.

7.  Pattern matching are signature based systems that are build on top 
of two heuristic models. Name and explain those two models
	Misuse modelling: Rule-based detection, IF a sequence of events violates a security
	policy then report the viloation.
	Specificantion modelling: Looks for states known not to the good. 



8.  A common way that the Great Firewall of China has to censor data 
is to force a disconnection. 
	a)  How does the Great Firewall do that? 
		Sending rest(RST) packets to both the client and server.
	b)  Our colleagues from Cambridge figure out a way to go around 
	censorship using iptables. Write down the rule that they use.
		iptables -A input -p tcp --tcp-flags RST RST -j DROP

9.  A company wants its NIDS to screen the content of HTTPS traffic 
that reaches its web servers. How can that be achieved?
	SSL mitm / strip. 

10.  Stockholm is dirt. One in 10,000 citizens is a litterer. In an attempt 
to make the city cleaner, the city authority installed a surveillance 
system which can detect litterers with a false positive and false 
negative rate of 1%. Is this system satisfactory? Why or why not?
(Stockholm’s urban population is about 1.6M)
	Assuming 100001 packets. 10000 is safe and 1 packets is malicious.
	*FP and FN rate is 1%
		*FP 100 out of 10000 packets are falsely marked malicious.
		*FN 0.01 out of 1 packets are falsely marked as benign.	
	*True positives: 1 - 0.01 = 0.99 packets.
	This means that there is 100 false positives for every 0.99 true prositiv packets.
		100X as many false positives as true positives.
	This is alot of work to go trough and the acctual true positive will
	with a high probability be missed.

----------------------Assignments from lecture 3 Applied network sec ----------------------
	11. How do you check which services running in the file server?
		nmap -sS 192.168.56.101
	12. How often are those other services (if any) been accessed?
		MAC-spoofing and wireshark
	13. How to verify which computers are heavily accessing the server
		MAC-spoofing and wireshark

Your loved one does not remember her/his password to her/his Spotify premium account.
She/He does remember that the password was exactly the same that she/he has to login
on your Linux PC (that she/he never touches!).
	14. How are you going to recover his/her password? What tool(s) do you need?
		Firstly cat /etc/passwd and /etc/shadow then use John the ripper.
		-unshadow /etc/passwd /etc/shadow > mypasswd
		john mypasswd
	15. Which operational mode are you going to use first?
	Explain and justify your answer.
		(I will use john mypasswd since it will cycle trough first "single crack" 			
		then use a wordlist with rules and finnaly go for the incremental mode.)
		If i would use only one mode i would choose Single crack since alot of 
		pepole use for example ELITE speak. But if i would have a huge word-list
		i would probably use that first.

----------------------Assignments from lecture 4 Web sec----------------------
16.  Why do we have the same origin policy in browsers?
Explain when can code interact.
	*So that code from different site cant share data between them. Eg a malicius site
	cant fetch data from your facebook tab.
	*Code can interact when they are from the same domain and not when twitter != fb.com
	When they use same application layer protocol eg not HTTP != HTTPS
	Using the same TCP port. eg not 80 != 443

17.  (a) To what type of attack is the code above vulnerable to?	
	*Since we dont sanitice input from the user one can easily cat together more
	bash commands as input and it will be executed on the same level as the application
	is running on.
     (b) How could it be exploited? Provide one example.
	https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Command_Injection
	* $ ./catWrapper "Story.txt; ls"

18.   How could that be prevented?
	Sanitice input from users / files(only accept surtent size and file extention)
	Sanitice = If we find ';' in the string error out and dont process the call.

19.  Explain what is (stored) cross-site scripting (XSS) and how it works.
	Stored attacks are those where the injected script is permanently stored on the 
	target servers, such as in a database, in a message forum, visitor log, comment 
	field, etc. The victim then retrieves the malicious script from the server when 
	it requests the stored information. Stored XSS is also sometimes referred to as 
	Persistent or Type-I XSS.

	https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Cross-site_Scripting_(XSS)
	https://imgur.com/a/GHaJr

20. Consider a SQL database with a table CIA_agents that is accessed using the following 
dynamic SQL statement:"SELECT * FROM CIA_agents WHERE id = '" + $id + "'";
Write an input to the SQL statement above that retrieves all entries from the 
CIA_agents table, i.e., is equivalent to 
SELECT * FROM CIA_agents;	
	*SELECT * FROM CIA_agents WHERE ID = 'xxx' OR '1' = '1';
		Input to the field if lets sat webpage:
		input: xxx' OR '1' = '1	

21. Name two methods to prevent SQL injection attacks.
	*Parametrized statements: dontn embed users input into SQL statements.
	*Escaping or whitelisting of inputs: get rid of characters with special
	meaning to SQL Eg ', = 
	*Premission of the webapp towards the DB: Set it so it only can do a specific
	task and not be able to use the entire database.
	*Dont leak DB error messages.
----------------------Assignments from lecture 5 Wireless ----------------------
22. Why increasing WEP’s secret key length to 104 or even 232 bits not 
enough to make it secure? (VETO)
http://www.dummies.com/programming/networking/understanding-wep-weaknesses/
	*The IV is too small and in cleartext.
	* Reuse of the same IV produces identical key streams for the protection 
	of data, and because the IV is short, it guarantees that those streams 
	will repeat after a relatively short time (between 5 and 7 hours) on a busy network.

23. TKIP was designed to correct the most serious flaws in WEP while 
keeping the RC4 algorithm. How does TKIP address the weaknesses of 
WEP?
	* Re-keying mechanism to provide fresh keys. And use diffrent keys for diffrent 	
	purposes
	*Per packet mixing function -> prevent weak key attacks, MAC of the destination 
	is mized to the temporal key.
	*Dicipline for IV sequencing -> prevent IV resuse, IV counter i reseted after the 		
	establishment of fresh keys

24. What does RSNA algorithms specify?	(VETO)
	(Robust secure network association):
	* Crypto keys = {Key hierarchy, Key setting, Distribution method}
	*The data confidentiality / integrity protocols
	*Network architecture for authentication.
	

25. Explain there is a 4-way handshake in WPA2. What are its (VETO)
outputs? How does it work?
	https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/ac/4-way-handshake.svg
	1: The AP sends a nonce-value to the STA(Anounce). The client now has all the 		
	attributes to construct the PTK(Pairwire Transient key) 
	2: The STA sends it own nonce(STAnonce) to the AP together with a MIC including auth
	3: The AP constructs and send the GTK(Group temporal key) and a seq number together 		
	with another MIC. Tis seq number will be used in the next multicast or broadcast frame,
	so that the reciving STA can prform basic replay detection.
	4: The STA sends a confirmation to the AP.

