1 What is the adversary’s goal and capabilities in IND-CPA?
	*The goal is to prove that an symmetric encryption algorithm is unsecure via a game.
	if an symmetric encryption algorithm is 50/50 the algorithm is deamd to be secure since
	the adversary is only guessing at that point.
	*The capabillities the adversary has is an "encryption oracle" meaning that it can
	send how many messages it wants and get back the cyphertext and compute it as much it
	wants.
2 What is the difference between an IV and a nonce?
	*Nonce a number only used once.
	*IV(initialization vector): has to be an random stream of bytes as the same size as 
	the CBC block size. This vector also has to be unpredictable.
		Conversely, most block cipher modes of operation require an IV which is random 			and unpredictable, or at least unique for each message encrypted with a given 			key. (Of course, if each key is only ever used to encrypt a single message, 			one can get away with using a fixed IV.) This random IV ensures that each 			message encrypts differently, such that seeing multiple messages encrypted 			with the same key doesn't give the attacker any more information than just 			seeing a single long message. In particular, it ensures that encrypting the 			same message twice yields two completely different ciphertexts, which is 			necessary in order for the encryption scheme to be semantically secure.
	The difference is that a Nonce is a random number only used once and for a short time
	with the intention of beeing replaced by or converted into something better(e.g CTR)
	An IV is also used as input for an crypto primitive to achieve randomization to our 		first block in a CBC mode and therefor messages that is the same (m1=m2) will not
	encrypt to the same cipher.
	
3 What is the difference between a protocol and an algorithm?
	*algorithm: Is how we process some data to derive at an awnser.
	*protocol: Its like an algorithm but it invoves several players / entities
	that is communicating using primitives and / or schemes
		A protocol is a set of rules that governs how a system operates. The rules 			establish the basic functioning of the different parts, how they interact with 			each other, and what conditions are necessary for a healthy implementation. 			The different parts of a protocol are not sensitive to order or chronology – 			it doesn’t matter which part is enacted first. And a protocol doesn’t tell the 			system how to produce a result. It doesn’t have an objective other than a 			smooth execution. It doesn’t produce an output.

		It’s like the engine of a car, how a car works.

		An algorithm, on the other hand, is a set of instructions that produces an 			output or a result. It can be a simple script, or a complicated program. The 			order of the instructions is important, and the algorithm specifies what that 			order is. It tells the system what to do in order to achieve the desired 			result. It may not know what the result is beforehand, but it knows that it 			wants one.

		It’s what you need to do to drive the car, the actions that the driver 			performs.

		The protocol is a set of rules that determines how the system functions.

		The algorithm tells the system what to do.

		The protocol is. The algorithm does.
	
4 Describe the CBC and CTR block-cipher modes.
	




5 For symmetric encryption with a block cipher using CBC-mode, what is the consequence of:
	1 Using a predictable IV?
	2 Reusing an IV?
6 How is ROT13 related to the Caesar cipher? Give an example.
7 Assume that you compress a message m as part of encrypting it with a
semantically secure encryption algorithm: does this break semantic security? Explain why (not).
8 Attempt to answer the question on slide 13.
